DOCS-7483 upgrade clarify (#213)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/upgrade-index.adoc

= Upgrade Runtime Fabric
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: upgrade-cluster.adoc, upgrade-components.adoc

Anypoint Runtime Fabric is a package of components that work together, and updates are delivered in different ways:

> * Cluster-level components, which include Docker, Kubernetes, and the Ops Center. These components run on virtual machines or bare-metal servers that act as nodes on the cluster.

Reviewer: Instead of "cluster-level" components, we could go with "Appliance components" and start leading w/ that terminology

Author: Updated this section.

+
Updates are delivered as an updated installer package via the *Runtime Fabric downloads* page in Anypoint Runtime Manager.  The installer package is also referred to as the Runtime Fabric appliance.

* Runtime Fabric components, which include the agent used to connect Runtime Fabric to Anypoint Platform.
+

> Updates are delivered via the Runtime Fabric page in Anypoint Runtime Manager. If an updated application or appliance version is available, a link to the downloads page is displayed in the *Upgrade Available* and *Appliance Version* fields, as applicable.

Reviewer: I think this line makes sense, but it's a bit confusing given we have the appliance / installer package in the line above, but yet we're also referring to it here.

It might make more sense to say that upgrades for both components can be found in Runtime Manager, and just specify how they are applied in the bullet points.

Author: I've updated this section.

* The `rtfctl` command-line utility, which is used to manage Runtime Fabric and perform the actual upgrades to cluster-level and node configuration components.
+

> Upgrades are delivered as a new binary via the *Runtime Fabric downloads* page in Runtime Manager.

Reviewer: Similar feedback to above.

Author: I've updated this section.

* Node configuration, which includes scripts for provisioning AWS and Azure infrastructure, preparing each node, bootstrapping a new Runtime Fabric, adjusting operating system limits, and performing jobs to clean up system resources.
+
Changes are delivered as an updated install script version via the *Runtime Fabric downloads* page in Runtime Manager.
+
[NOTE]
If you are upgrading the node configuration with install scripts, the latest version of the cluster-level components (installer package) is automatically downloaded and used.

It is important to run with the most current versions of the cluster-level (installer package) and `rtfctl` components.

> == Determine the Component Versions You Are Using

Reviewer: Like how we're able to combine this due to having support for running a single command to gather the versions of all components.

Consider adjusting the header to make this more apparent -- something like "Determine the versions of each component"

Author: Updated - thank you!

* Run the following command:
+
```
/opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/rtfctl version
```
* The output provides the `rtfctl` version, the installer package version in the `appliance` field, and the Runtime Fabric version in the `agent` field, as shown in the following example:
+
```
[root@ip-10-0-245-74 /]# /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/rtfctl version
COMPONENT    VERSION                  
rtfctl       0.2.96+2868e14           
agent        1.5.4                    
appliance    1.1.1581641679-5884bce   
kubernetes   1.13.12
```
+
[NOTE]

> The Runtime Fabric version is also displayed in the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager. If an upgrade is available, "Upgrade to vx.x" is displayed.

Reviewer: "The Runtime Fabric component version and the appliance version are also displayed..."

Author: Updated - thank you!

> * Determine the install script version you are using by ???????????

Reviewer: The instal script is named based upon its version. That's the only way to determine it. I don't think it's necessary to determine what version of the script was used.

Author: OK - removed this.

== Determine the Latest Available Component Versions
The latest versions of each downloadable package are found in the *Downloads* page, located in Anypoint Runtime Manager in the *Runtime Fabrics* tab. A link to each package’s release notes is provided to show the changes.

You can also review the xref:release-notes/runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes.adoc[Anypoint Runtime Fabric Release Notes] information.

> == Runtime Fabric Component Upgrade Considerations

Reviewer: I think it makes more sense to show the considerations, prerequisites and procedure together for each component upgrade.

Having it arranged in a way where we group the considerations and procedure doesn't seem to flow if we consider the use case of a user trying to figure out "how do I upgrade my appliance version."

Author: I've consolidated the info.

+
.. Run `sudo gravity status` on a node and verify that the cluster status is “updating”.
.. Follow the progress on the upgrade procedure:
... Using your terminal open on a controller node, run the following command: 
+
----
sudo gravity plan
----
+
.. Confirm the upgrade has completed successfully:
... Run `sudo gravity status` and verify that the cluster status transitioned from “updating” to “active”.
.. If the Runtime Fabric cluster version was 1.0.x prior to upgrading, and an HTTP proxy is in use, run this command to apply the HTTP proxy settings: 
+
----
sudo ./rtfctl apply http-proxy --confirm existing
----
.. Perform the following step on *every node* to make sure system configurations are up to date:

... Open a terminal to your Runtime Fabric controller/worker node.
... If needed, download the latest `rtfctl` command-line utility:
+
----
cd /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric
curl -L https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/download/rtfctl/latest -o rtfctl
----
+
... Change file permissions for the `rtfctl` binary: 
+
----
chmod +x rtfctl
----
+
... Run the `apply system-configurations` command in `rtfctl`:
+
----
sudo ./rtfctl apply system-configuration 
----

> == Resume an Upgrade

Reviewer: Needs to be clear this is only for appliance upgrades.

Author: Updated this - thank you!

If the cluster-level (installer package) components upgrade procedure encountered a failed step, try to resume the upgrade. 

Resumed upgrades are attached to your terminal session. Ensure you have a stable connection before attempting to resume an upgrade.

. On a terminal open to the controller node that was used to start the upgrade, change to the directory with the installer bundle files, as shown in the following example:
+
----
cd /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/installer
----
+
. Run the command to resume the upgrade: 
+
----
sudo ./gravity upgrade --resume
----
+
. The upgrade continues streaming output to your terminal session. 

If the error occurs again, follow the troubleshooting steps described in the following section.
 

> == Troubleshooting Upgrade Errors

Reviewer: I think troubleshooting steps would be based upon which upgrade was taken (which component was being upgraded).

Author: I added a clarification for this.

----
+
.. Change file permissions for the `rtfctl` binary: 
+
----
sudo chmod +x rtfctl
----
. If you are not using the latest version of the cluster-level components (installer package), upgrade to the latest version:

.. Make sure the `/opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/installer` directory has a minimum of 4 GiB of disk space available.
.. Verify you have root privileges. Root privileges are required to perform an upgrade.
.. Verify your environment meets the prerequisites:

*** A production configuration of Runtime Fabric, with a minimum of 3 controller VMs, is required.
*** The internal load balancer must run on at least 3 replicas to maintain availability.
*** An external load balancer must be configured to load balance incoming requests to the controller VMs, with a health check configured for TCP port 443.
*** At least one worker node’s worth of CPU and memory resources must be available in the cluster.
+
This enables safe removal of a worker node from the cluster to apply upgrades, without impacting availability of applications.
*** Applications serving inbound requests must be scaled to a minimum of 2 replicas.
+

> [WARNING] Runtime Fabrics running on cluster version 1.0.x encounter downtime to applications if configured to use an HTTP proxy. You must perform an additional step in the procedure by applying the HTTP proxy configuration on each node after the upgrade. Locate the Runtime Fabric version by running `gravity status` on a node and referencing the cluster version.

Reviewer 2: Correction: gravity status -> rtfctl version

"Locate the Runtime Fabric version by running `rtfctl version` on a node and referencing the appliance version."

Author: Good catch - thank you!

.. Update your Mule deployments running on this Anypoint Runtime Fabric to the latest patch version.
... Using your web browser, navigate to the *Applications* tab in Anypoint Runtime Manager.
... Select an application and select *Manage Application*. 
... The value in the Runtime version field indicates if an update is available. Select the updated version of Mule runtime engine.
... Select *Deploy* to redeploy the application with the updated Mule runtime engine version.
... Repeat this for each application running on this Runtime Fabric.
.. Verify Runtime Fabric is healthy:
... Using your web browser, navigate to the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Anypoint Runtime Manager and verify that the Runtime Fabric reports an Active status.
... Open a terminal to a Runtime Fabric controller node.
... Run `sudo gravity status` and confirm the cluster status is healthy.
... Keep your terminal open to use in later steps.

.. Get the latest version of the Runtime Fabric installer package:
... Using your web browser, navigate to Anypoint Runtime Manager and select the *Runtime Fabrics* tab to view a list of your Runtime Fabrics.
... Select the *Downloads* link.

> ... Select the *Copy Link* icon next to *Installer package* to copy the code snippetL, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 2: typo: snippetL -> snippet

Author: Got it - thanks!

= Upgrade Runtime Fabric
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: upgrade-cluster.adoc, upgrade-components.adoc

> Anypoint Runtime Fabric is a package of components that work together, but are upgraded using different mechanisms:

Reviewer 3: no comma:
```suggestion
Anypoint Runtime Fabric is a package of components that work together but are upgraded using different mechanisms:
```

* Appliance components
+
There are two types of appliance components:

> ** Cluster-level components, which include Docker, Kubernetes, and the Ops Center. These components run on virtual machines (VMs) or bare-metal servers that act as nodes on the cluster.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion for each list item, for compliance with style guide:
```suggestion
** Cluster-level components
+
+ Including Docker, Kubernetes, and Ops Center, these components run on virtual machines (VMs) or bare-metal servers that act as nodes on the cluster.
```

+
Cluster-level component upgrades are delivered as an updated installer package via the *Runtime Fabric downloads* page in Anypoint Runtime Manager.

> ** Runtime Fabric components, which include the agent used to connect Runtime Fabric to Anypoint Platform.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Runtime Fabric components
+
+ Include the agent used to connect Runtime Fabric to Anypoint Platform.
```

+
Runtime Fabric component upgrades are obtained using a downloads page link that is displayed in the *Upgrade Available* and *Appliance Version* fields, as applicable, in Runtime Manager.

> * The `rtfctl` command-line utility, which is used to manage Runtime Fabric and perform the upgrades to cluster-level and node configuration components.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The `rtfctl` command-line utility
+
+ Used to manage Runtime Fabric and perform the upgrades to cluster-level and node configuration components.
```

+
Upgrades for the `rtfctl` utility are delivered as a new binary via the *Runtime Fabric downloads* page in Runtime Manager.

> * Node configuration, which includes scripts for provisioning AWS and Azure infrastructure, preparing each node, bootstrapping a new Runtime Fabric, adjusting operating system limits, and performing jobs to clean up system resources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Node configuration
+
+ Includes scripts for provisioning AWS and Azure infrastructure, preparing each node, bootstrapping a new Runtime Fabric, adjusting operating system limits, and performing jobs to clean up system resources.
```

+
Node configuration upgrades are delivered as an updated install script version using the *Runtime Fabric downloads* page in Runtime Manager.
+
[NOTE]
If you are upgrading the node configuration with updated install scripts, the latest version of the cluster-level components (installer package) is automatically downloaded and used.

> It is important to run with the most current versions of the cluster-level (installer package) and `rtfctl` components.

Reviewer 3: Should these sentences be reversed (and made plain text)?

== Determine the Component Versions You Are Using

Run the following command:
```
/opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/rtfctl version
```

Output includes:

* The `rtfctl` component version in the `rtfctl` field
* The installer package component version in the `appliance` field
* The Runtime Fabric component version in the `agent` field

> For example:

Reviewer 3: Per our style guide, either end the statement introducing the example with a colon or reword to a more grammatically complete fragment or sentence than "For example:"

```
[root@ip-10-0-245-74 /]# /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/rtfctl version
COMPONENT    VERSION                  
rtfctl       0.2.96+2868e14           
agent        1.5.4                    
appliance    1.1.1581641679-5884bce   
kubernetes   1.13.12
```

[NOTE]

> The Runtime Fabric component and cluster-level component (appliance) versions that are in use are also displayed in the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager. If an upgrade is available, an "Upgrade to vx.x" message is displayed.

Reviewer 3: active voice
```suggestion
You can view the Runtime Fabric component and cluster-level component (appliance) versions that are in use in the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager. If an upgrade is available, an "Upgrade to vx.x" message appears.
```

== Determine the Most Recent Component Versions Available

> The most recent component versions are displayed in the *Downloads* page, located in Runtime Manager in the *Runtime Fabrics* tab. A link to each package’s release notes is provided to show the changes.

Reviewer 3: Because this is a user "task," I would use active:
== Determine the Most Recent Component Versions Available
```suggestion
You can view the most recent component versions in the *Downloads* page located in Runtime Manager in the *Runtime Fabrics* tab. A link to each package’s release notes shows the changes.
```

You can also review the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes.adoc[Anypoint Runtime Fabric Release Notes] information.

=== Apply the Upgrade

> Before upgrading your production environment, perform the following steps on a nonproduction Runtime Fabric to verify compatibility with your environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before upgrading your production environment, perform the following steps on a nonproduction Runtime Fabric to verify compatibility with your environment:
```

. Review the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes.adoc[Anypoint Runtime Fabric Release Notes] information.

> . Provision additional worker VMs as needed to maintain availability of applications:

Reviewer 3: Because there is just one step, change substep to a followup para:
```suggestion
. Provision additional worker VMs as needed to maintain the availability of applications.
```

> .. If the amount of available resources for application deployments is less than the resources of one worker node, add another worker VM with the same amount of CPU, memory, and disk resources to the Runtime Fabric.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ If the amount of available resources for application deployments is less than the resources of one worker node, add another worker VM with the same amount of CPU, memory, and disk resources to Runtime Fabric.
```

+
See xref:manage-nodes.adoc[How to Add a Node to Runtime Fabric].
. To upgrade Runtime Fabric components to a later version:

.. Plan to upgrade when your team is not deploying new applications or managing existing applications on Runtime Fabric.  
.. Navigate to your Runtime Fabric by selecting it on the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager.

> .. Select "Upgrade to vx.x". The status of the Runtime Fabric is updated to show that the upgrade procedure is in progress.

Reviewer 3: Per style guide entry about bullet lists:
```suggestion
.. Select "Upgrade to vx.x". 
+
+ The status of Runtime Fabric is updated to show that the upgrade procedure is in progress.
```

.. Wait for the status to transition to *Active*. 
+

> In most cases, the upgrade takes less than 10 minutes. When the status transitions to *Active*, and the version of the Runtime Fabric reflects the new version, the upgrade is complete.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In most cases, the upgrade takes fewer than 10 minutes. When the status transitions to *Active* and the version of the Runtime Fabric reflects the new version, the upgrade is complete.
```

+

> If the Runtime Fabric and Runtime Manager connection disconnects during the upgrade, connectivity is restored after the upgrade finishes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the Runtime Fabric and Runtime Manager connection breaks during the upgrade, connectivity is restored after the upgrade finishes.
```

Reviewer 3: THANK YOU for knowing when to not use "complete"!  ;-)

+

> Keep your browser session open to use in later steps.

Reviewer 3: Should this be the final step of the task preceding it?

Reviewer 3: Or...should this be a step at all, given that "later steps" are provided next?
Please review narrative flow here.

+
[IMPORTANT]
To upgrade to Runtime Fabric version 1.5 or later, you must be running version 1.4.54. If you are not running version 1.4.54, upgrade to 1.4.54 before upgrading to 1.5.

> . If you are not using the latest version of the `rtfctl` command-line utility, download the latest version:

Reviewer 3: Is this actually a separate task, and should this be the plain-text intro leading to the steps that are currently formatted as substeps?
```suggestion
+ If you are not using the latest version of the `rtfctl` command-line utility, download the latest version:
```

> .. Using your terminal on a controller node, run the following command: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Using your terminal on a controller node, run the following command: 
```

+
----
cd /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric
sudo curl -L https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/download/rtfctl/latest -o rtfctl
----
+

> .. Change file permissions for the `rtfctl` binary: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Change file permissions for the `rtfctl` binary: 
```

+
----
sudo chmod +x rtfctl
----

> . If you are not using the latest version of the cluster-level components (installer package), upgrade to the latest version:

Reviewer 3: ditto
```suggestion
+ If you are not using the latest version of the cluster-level components (installer package), upgrade to the latest version:
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Yes, this is all nested unnecessarily deeply. Please adjust all the following format tags to promote them one level per the previous edit. I will not retag these myself, to avoid assuming your intent.

Reviewer 3: (Always review your organization if you get to three levels and beyond.)

> .. Make sure the `/opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/installer` directory has a minimum of 4 GiB of disk space available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Verify that the `/opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/installer` directory has a minimum of 4 GiB of disk space available.
```

> .. Verify you have root privileges. Root privileges are required to perform an upgrade.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Verify that you have root privileges, which are required to perform an upgrade.
```

> .. Verify your environment meets the prerequisites:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Verify that your environment contains the following prerequisites:
```

> *** A production configuration of Runtime Fabric, with a minimum of 3 controller VMs, is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*** A production configuration of Runtime Fabric, with a minimum of three controller VMs
```

> *** The internal load balancer must be running on at least 3 replicas to maintain availability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*** An internal load balancer running on at least three replicas, to maintain availability
```

> *** An external load balancer must be configured to load balance incoming requests to the controller VMs, with a health check configured for TCP port 443.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*** An external load balancer configured to load balance incoming requests to the controller VMs, with a health check configured for TCP port 443
```

> *** The CPU and memory resources for at least one worker node must be available in the cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*** CPU and memory resources for at least one worker node available in the cluster
```

+
This enables safe removal of a worker node from the cluster to apply upgrades without impacting application availability.

> *** Applications serving inbound requests must be scaled to a minimum of 2 replicas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*** Applications serving inbound requests scaled to a minimum of two replicas
```

+

> [WARNING] Runtime Fabrics running on cluster version 1.0.x encounter application downtime if configured to use an HTTP proxy. You must apply the HTTP proxy configuration on each node after the upgrade. Locate the Runtime Fabric version by running `rtfctl version` on a node and referencing the appliance version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[WARNING] Runtime Fabric instances running on cluster version 1.0.x encounter application downtime if configured to use an HTTP proxy. You must apply the HTTP proxy configuration to each node after the upgrade. Locate the Runtime Fabric version by running `rtfctl version` on a node and referencing the appliance version.
```

> .. Update the Mule deployments running on Runtime Fabric to the latest patch version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Update the Mule deployments running on Runtime Fabric to the latest patch version:
```

... Using your web browser, navigate to the *Applications* tab in Runtime Manager.
... Select an application and select *Manage Application*. 

> ... The value in the *Runtime version* field indicates if an update is available. Select the updated version of Mule runtime engine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
... In the *Runtime version* field, select the updated version of Mule runtime engine.
```

... Select *Deploy* to redeploy the application with the updated Mule runtime engine version.
... Repeat this for each application running on this Runtime Fabric.

> .. Verify Runtime Fabric is healthy:

Reviewer 3: There is a subtle usage difference between "verify" and "verify that" and "ensure" and "ensure that"; see the style reference.
```suggestion
.. Verify that Runtime Fabric is healthy:
```

... Using your web browser, navigate to the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager and verify that Runtime Fabric reports an *Active* status.
... Open a terminal to a Runtime Fabric controller node.

> ... Run `sudo gravity status` and confirm the cluster status is healthy.

Reviewer 3: ditto "confirm" vs. "confirm that"
```suggestion
... Run `sudo gravity status` and confirm that the cluster status is healthy.
```

... Keep your terminal open to use in later steps.

> 

Reviewer 3: So, here and in the previous text where I got confused, include some text at the beginning the step following "Keep your terminal open..." that indicates where the user goes next, to perform that following step: "In the...." "Navigate to...," or similar.

.. Get the latest version of the Runtime Fabric installer package:

> ... Using your web browser, navigate to Runtime Manager and select the *Runtime Fabrics* tab to view a list of Runtime Fabrics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
... Using your web browser, navigate to Runtime Manager and select the *Runtime Fabrics* tab to view a list of Runtime Fabric instances.
```

> ... Select the *Downloads* link.

Reviewer 3: Please search GLOBALLY for "select" and replace it with "click" as guided by our style reference, whether you agree with it or not. The team needs to follow one standard:

"Use “click” to refer to activating a UI control; reserve “select” for making a choice among options or marking a checkbox."

... Select the *Copy Link* icon next to *Installer package* to copy the code snippet, as shown in the following example:
+
```
rtfctl appliance upgrade --url https://<upgrade-package-information>
```
... Paste the code snippet in a text editor for reference. 
.. Start the upgrade procedure:

> ... Using your terminal open on a controller node, run the following command, substituting the value of the <cluster-installer-url> parameter with the *Installer package* URL value: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
... Using your open controller-node terminal, run the following command, substituting the value of the `<cluster-installer-url>` parameter with the installer package URL value: 
```

+
----
sudo ./rtfctl appliance upgrade --url <cluster-installer-url>
----
+
This command also supports using the `--file` parameter to reference an installer package already downloaded on the node.
+

> A confirmation is displayed that indicates the upgrade is being performed in the background.

Reviewer 3: ditto "indicates" vs. "indicates that"
```suggestion
A confirmation is displayed that indicates that the upgrade is being performed in the background.
```

+

> .. Run `sudo gravity status` on a node and verify that the cluster status is “updating”.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Run `sudo gravity status` on a node and verify that the cluster status is `updating`.
```

.. Monitor the upgrade procedure progress:

> ... Using your terminal on a controller node, run the following command: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
... Using your controller-node terminal, run the following command: 
```

+
----
sudo gravity plan
----
+
The upgrade can take more than an hour to complete.
+

> The Runtime Fabric and Runtime Manager connection often disconnects multiple times during the upgrade procedure. Connectivity is restored after the upgrade completes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Runtime Fabric and Runtime Manager connection often disconnects multiple times during the upgrade procedure. Connectivity is restored after the upgrade finishes.
```

+
The upgrade procedure is designed to keep deployed applications running and available to serve requests. The upgrade is applied in a rolling method:

> +

Reviewer 3: Following steps are all in passive voice; do you intend that?

> .... A node is selected by the procedure to apply the upgrade.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.... A node to apply the upgrade to is selected by the procedure.
```

.... Applications running on the selected node are redeployed to another node.
.... The selected node is removed from the cluster.
.... The upgrade is applied on the selected node.

> .... The selected node is added to the cluster after upgrading.

Reviewer 3: Information is much too deeply nested. Try to break up huge tasks with several subtasks into separate subtopics rather than doing this. Here as above, I have copyedited the existing narrative but would really like to see it reworked to avoid this.

Reviewer 3: OOPS...I should have broken this edit up, due to the number of comments and how picky GitHub is about that. 
I am going to attempt to break here....

> .. Confirm the upgrade has completed successfully:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Confirm that the upgrade completed successfully:
```

... Run `sudo gravity status` and verify that the cluster status transitioned from *Updating* to *Active*.

> .. If the Runtime Fabric cluster version was 1.0.x prior to upgrading, and an HTTP proxy is in use, run the following command to apply the HTTP proxy settings: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. If the Runtime Fabric cluster version was 1.0.x prior to upgrading and an HTTP proxy is in use, run the following command to apply the HTTP proxy settings:
```

+
----
sudo ./rtfctl apply http-proxy --confirm existing
----

> .. Perform the following step on *every node* to make sure system configurations are up-to-date:

Reviewer 3: Do not use bold for emphasis; see style reference.
```suggestion
.. Perform the following step on every node to ensure that system configurations are current:
```

> ... Open a terminal to your Runtime Fabric controller/worker node.

Reviewer 3: Do not use / to indicate "either/or." See style guide.
```suggestion
... Open a terminal to your Runtime Fabric controller or worker node.
```

... If needed, download the latest `rtfctl` command-line utility:
+
----
cd /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric
curl -L https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/download/rtfctl/latest -o rtfctl
----
+
... Change file permissions for the `rtfctl` binary: 
+
----
chmod +x rtfctl
----
+
... Run the `apply system-configurations` command in `rtfctl`:
+
----
sudo ./rtfctl apply system-configuration 
----

> == Resume a Cluster-level Component (Appliance) Upgrade

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Resume a Cluster-Level Component (Appliance) Upgrade
```

If a cluster-level (installer package) components upgrade step fails, try to resume the upgrade. 

> Resumed upgrades are attached to your terminal session, so ensure you have a stable connection before attempting to resume an upgrade.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Resumed upgrades are attached to your terminal session, so ensure that you have a stable connection before attempting to resume an upgrade.
```

> . On the terminal open to the controller node that was used to start the upgrade, navigate to the directory with the installer bundle files, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 3: Hmm...I might have misunderstood all the previous wordings around open terminals and controller nodes. Would you please review this one and the previous and ensure that they clearly convey the relationship between terminal and node?

+
----
cd /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/installer
----
+
. Run the following command to resume the upgrade: 
+
----
sudo ./gravity upgrade --resume
----
+

> . The upgrade procedure streams output to your terminal session. 

Reviewer 3: Not a step
```suggestion
+ The upgrade procedure streams output to your terminal session. 
```

> If the previous error reoccurs, perform the troubleshooting steps described in the following section.

Reviewer 3: Do not refer in any topic to itself or to a previous or following topic/section. See "self-reference" in style guide.
```suggestion
If the error reoccurs, troubleshoot the upgrade.
```

> == Troubleshooting Component-level (Appliance) Upgrade Errors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Troubleshooting Component-Level (Appliance) Upgrade Errors
```

> A specific sequence of steps is performed during a cluster-level component (installer package) upgrade. If an error occurs, the upgrade pauses and displays an error. In most cases, the availability of running applications is not impacted when running multiple replicas of each application on a production Runtime Fabric configuration.

Reviewer 3: active voice
```suggestion
A cluster-level component (installer package) upgrade follows a specific sequence of steps. If an error occurs, the upgrade pauses and displays an error. In most cases, the availability of running applications is not impacted when running multiple replicas of each application on a production Runtime Fabric configuration.
```

> Most errors encountered are due to insufficient disk performance on the `etcd` block device running on the controller nodes. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Most errors are due to insufficient disk performance on the `etcd` block device running on the controller nodes. 
```

Perform the following steps to resolve common errors:

. Use the `gravity plan` command to identify the phase in which the upgrade paused: 
+
----
sudo ./gravity plan
----
+
The following partial list provides upgrade phase examples:
+
----
* init 
* checks
* bootstrap
  * node-1
* masters
  * node-1   
    * drain
    * system-upgrade
    * taint
    ...
* runtime
  * rbac-app
  * site
  * kubernetes
* app
  * telekube     
----
+

> . Resume the upgrade using the `--debug` flag with the phase in which the error occurred. The following example resumes an upgrade by restarting the `masters/node-1/drain` phase: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Resume the upgrade using the `--debug` flag with the phase in which the error occurred. 
+
+ The following example resumes an upgrade by restarting the `masters/node-1/drain` phase: 
```

+
----
sudo ./gravity upgrade --phase=/masters/node-1/drain --force --debug
----

> . Wait for the command to run. If the command does not terminate with an error, resume the upgrade by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Wait for the command to run, and if the command does not terminate with an error, resume the upgrade by running the following command:
```

+
----
sudo ./gravity upgrade --resume
----
. If the upgrade again terminates with an error:
.. Read the logs to identify which node requires repair.
.. Submit a ticket to MuleSoft support if additional assistance is required.
. Open another terminal to the Runtime Fabric node identified in the error logs.

> . Repair the upgrade plan for the identified node in the terminal:

Reviewer 3: I think the text about contacting support should not be a step on par with identifying the wonky node. How about this:
. If the upgrade again terminates with an error, read the logs to identify which node requires repair.
. If you cannot identify a node or require other assistance, stop here and submit a ticket to MuleSoft support; otherwise, open another terminal to the Runtime Fabric node identified in the error logs.
. Repair the upgrade plan for the identified node in the terminal:

Reviewer 3: "Repair the upgrade plan"? Does one repair a plan?

+
----
sudo gravity plan --repair
----
+
. On the controller node running the upgrade, manually run the failed phase:
+
----
sudo ./gravity plan execute --phase=< insert phase > --force --debug
----

> If an error is returned, wait a few minutes and repeat the previous steps.

Reviewer 3: Does this also need some mention of contacting support if the repeat does not work?
